2pc:

Request phase:
1. 2pc coordinator sends prepare request to all participants
2. Participants reply with a vote (commit or abort)

Commit phase:
1. If coordinator receives a majority of commit votes, it sends commit message to all participants
2. Participants commit their changes
3. Participant ACKs
4. Coordinator completes

Abort phase:
1. If any participant votes abort or timeout, coordinator sends abort message to all participants
2. Participants abort their changes
3. Participant ACKs
4. Coordinator completes

Problems - blocking failure:
1. Coordinator, A, B, C
2. Coordinator sends prepare to A, B, C
3. A, B, C reply with commit
4. Coordinator sends commit to A. A commits
5. Coordinator and A both dies
6. B, C is stuck since they don't know if A committed or not

2pc is safe, not live

3pc
Request phase:
1. 2pc coordinator sends prepare request to all participants
2. Participants reply with a vote (commit or abort)

Precommit phase:
1. If coordinator receives a majority of commit votes, it sends preCommit message to all participants
2. Participants prepare to commit

DoCommit phase:
1. If coordinator receives a majority of precommit votes, it sends doCommit message to all participants
2. Participants commit their changes

If Coordinator and A crashes, B/C/D can still reach a safe decision
1. If one of them received precommit, they can all commit
	A will recover, reads from B/C/D and commits
2. If none of them received precommit, they can all abort
	This is safe, since A couldn't have received doCommit so A couldn't have committed

Problems:
For 3pc, timeout cause abort unless received preCommit
If waiting for doCommit timeout results in abort, a node can get partitioned and decide to abort while everyone else doCommits

Scenario A:
1. Coordinator, A/B/C/D
2. A receives preCommit
3. A gets partitioned from B/C/D, coordinator partitioned or dies
4. B/C/D aborts upon timeout, A commits upon timeout

3pc doomed for network partition
3pc trades safety for liveness, 2pc trade liveness for safety
A protocol that's both safe and live is impossible (FLP' 85)

3pc can guarantee both safety and liveness if you know upper bound of message delays 
	_Possible to infer if something has crashed with certainty
